while researching the uh death from the
skies talks um about the impact events
uh in the jordan valley of 1650
bce and also the 13 000 year old younger
dry ass event i also came across this
asteroid 1950 da a small one kilometer
diameter asteroid that is reported to be
the asteroid most likely to collide with
the earth in the relatively near future
and i haven't heard much about this
before so i looked into it a little bit
and the prediction is
quite precise that on the 16th of march
in the year 2880
so
no need to panic right now we've got 800
years
um
it will
impact and it's even
predicted to impact in the sea
just between greenland and iceland
and uh this will uh
come in at 40 000 miles an hour
weighing a vast amount and release
megatons worth of um
energy so uh but it will land in the
ocean
and this is very interesting here's the
orbit of uh the offending object you can
see crosses the earth's orbit twice here
on this diagram but there's one
particular close pass that we're very
worried about
um and they reckon there's a one chance
in 8 000 that it will hit that's a
actually a very high probability in the
grand scale of these things um they're
still fairly low in human terms and
it'll probably miss us but uh one in
eight thousand is something that we do
need to start worrying about
um and people are looking at ways in
which we might try and deflect this one
the image at the bottom is a radar image
of the object by the way it's not very
distinct but you can see the overall
sort of vaguely round shape of the
outline of the asteroid
now if it does come down in the north
atlantic uh
it'll be very bad for um quite large
areas of the continental united states
with huge
tsunamis washing up all across the
eastern seaboard right around the
caribbean down into
south america and then 12 hours later
the tsunami will have crossed the
atlantic and the european side won't be
spared it will
cause havoc
all over uh britain and uh western
europe as the uh enormous tidal waves
come crashing across the land
uh this is a simulation of the heights
of the tsunamis measured in uh
meters here so the worst affected areas
will have 100 meter plus tsunamis it'll
be still pretty bad down in the
caribbean with 30 meters or so
and south america and so forth
less so on the european side but
nevertheless could be very very serious
and some people have suggested that this
sort of event
might account for the stories of the uh
the biblical flood in
the uh ancient stories in the bible and
maybe a mega tsunami caused by an ocean
impact might well have uh
resulted in all of those
myths and legends about a giant flood
that seems entirely plausible to me
especially given what we know about this
particular asteroid
and while we're in the realms of
speculation some people have suggested
that maybe
a previous event like this has in fact
wiped out the cons the lost continent of
atlantis and they point to all sorts of
locations in the atlantic around the
azores
the canary islands uh offal island here
in this particular case they look at
this raised sea floor area here and say
well maybe this was the subject of
a bombardment that
continent of atlantis
there's not much evidence for this at
all but it's just interesting to
have a little think about
the possibilities and i do draw your
attention to the fact that you can
almost see some
round crater-like outlines in here if
you really try um so maybe
but
i'm not sure that there's really any
evidence you can usually tell by
drilling core samples whether or not the
seabed has been
shocked by
an impact so
i suspect this is just an artifact
the human brain's very very good at
noticing patterns especially if it's
looking for them so maybe this is just
all a myth and a bit fanciful but i
thought i'd mention it anyway